"Cat in the box" is a card game categorized as a trick-taking game. The color of  
each cat card is not certain, and when the card is played, it will be treated as the  
color declared by the player. However, players are not allowed to declare  
the color of a card with the same number that has already been declared.

List of components:

45 Cat cards (5 cards each from 1 to 9)
1 Round Start Player 
4 Research cards  card      
5 Player boards
1 Research board             
60 Player tokens (12 each of Red, Blue, Yellow, Green, and Purple)

The components to be used differ according to the number of players.
Refer to the table below.

5 Players: 9 cards each from 1 to 9, 5 player boards, 5 player tokens
4 Players: 8 cards each from 1 to 8, 4 player boards, 4 player tokens
3 Players: 6 cards each from 1 to 6, 3 player boards, 3 player tokens


Game Preparation
In this experiment game, players play a number of rounds equal to the number of
players, and the sum of those rounds determines the winner of the game.
Before starting the game, follow the procedure as below:
2. Each player takes a type of player token (all 12 pieces) and a player board.
3. Place one player token on each X on your player board.
4. Insert the research cards into the research board and place it in the center ofthe table.
See the table below to check which face of the research cards to use. Depending on
the number of players, observed tokens must be placed on the research board.
6. The start player is chosen randomly and receives the Round Start Player card and puts it in front
of them.
This concludes the preparation of the game. When playing with two players, some the rules are different. Please refer to the section "Rules for two players" at the end of this document.

3. Round sequence
Each round consists of three phases as below.

1. Preparation phase
2. Trick phase
3. Scoring phase
To win this experiment game, a player must have the highest total score after playing
rounds equal to the number of players.

1. Preparation phase (Distribute 10 cards when playing with 3 or 4 players, and 9 cards when playing with 5 players)
[1] Deal player's hand and put 1 card face down
Shuffle all cat cards face down and distribute them to each player evenly. The dealt
cards are called your hand. Look at your hand and be careful not to let other players
see What is in your hand.
After checking your hand, each player simultaneously selects one card from their hand
and places it face down near the research board.
[2] Predict tricks in clockwise order (Don't use the face down cards in the current round)
Each player checks their hand and predicts how many tricks they will win in this round.
The numbers indicated on your player board shows the number of tricks you can choose
for your prediction. Beginning from the start player and then moving clockwise, each
player places a player token on the predicted number of tricks they will win on their player
board. After all players have made their predictions, proceed to the trick phase. If you are playing with 3 players, you can only predict the number of tricks you will win as 1, 3 or 4. This means you cannot declare 2 tricks.

2. Trick phase
In this phase, players will repeat a series of mini games known as tricks. After playing the specified number of tricks or when a paradox occurs, the
trick phase ends and players proceed to scoring phase.

Trick-taking

The start player begins by playing a cat card from their hand and all other players
in clockwise order do the same. When any player plays a cat card, they must declare the
observed color. There are rules when declaring the observed color:
Declaring the observed color
The color of the cat cards in your hand is not certain. When a cat card is played from
any player's hand, that player observes and declares the cat's color as red, blue, yellow, or
green, as shown on the research board.
The player who played a cat card declares what color the played card is, places
the card alongside that color on their player board, and then places
a player token in the corresponding space on the research board.

Led color
During a trick, the first observed and declared color is known as the led color.

Rules on declaring the observed color

To positively declare a valid color, the observed color must satisfy the following rules.
Rule 1: On the row of color you are going to declare on the research board,
the space of the number of the cat card you are playing must be empty.
Rule 2: On your player board, a player token must be placed on the X of the color you are going to declare.

Players must follow the rules above to play a cat card.
In addition, the following rules must be fulfilled depending on the situation.

When playing a card as the start player:
The start player must declare blue, yellow, or green when declaring a color. T his
means the start player may not declare red (trump). However, if any player token(s)
of any player is already placed on the red row on the research board, this rule can be
ignored and the start player may declare red as the led color. You can also declare red
as the led color if you cannot declare any other color with any cards from your hand. If you want yo win a trick, you should play the same color as the led colors (the so-called follow suit rules)

When playing a card after the first card:
Players who play a card after the start player may declare any color (red, blue, yellow,
or green), as long as it satisfies rule 1 and 2. If you declare a color which differs from
the led color, remove the player token on your player board placed on the X space of
the led color. If the player token has already been removed, ignore this step.

Winner of the trick

After all players have played a card and declared a color, check who is the winner of
the trick.
The player who played the strongest card is the winner of this trick.
The strength of the card depends on the declared card's color, followed by the card's
number.

Strength of the color
If all players played and declared a card of the led color, skip checking the strength of
the color.
However, if any player declared a color different from the led color, check the strength
of the color.

However, if any player declared a color different from the led color, check the strength
of the color.
• If red is declared in addition to the led color:
Red (trump) is stronger than the led color. Leave only cards declared as red andi
remove all other cards when checking the strongest color
• If blue, yellow, or green is declared in addition to the led color:
The led color is stronger than the other colors. Leave only cards declared as the led
color and remove all other cards when checking the strongest color.

Strenght of the numbers
Compare the remaining cards. The card With the highest number wins the trick.

Winning a trick
The player who wins the trick takes all the played
cards together into a pile and places it face down
in front of them.
You can count how many times a player has wonl
this round by counting how many piles of tricksl
they have in front of them. Make sure to separatel
each trick so that they do not get mixed up.
The player who wins the trick will be the start
player for the next trick and plays the first card.

End of trick phase and paradox
Repeat playing a trick until there is only one card left in your hand. After that, end the
trick phase and proceed to the scoring phase. If a paradox occurs during the trick
phase, immediately stop the experiment trick phase and proceed to the scoring phase.

Occurrence of a paradox
During the trick phase, when you cannot declare and observe any card
from your hand according to the rules, which means, you cannot meet
the observation rules and place a player token on the research board, so al
paradox occurs.
A paradox cannot be created on purpose. If there is a card that you can play and declare the observed color, you must play that card.
When a paradox occurs, immediately stop the trick phase.
The player who caused the paradox reveals their hand and declares that a paradox
has occurred.
No player wins the trick that caused the paradox, but do not remove the tokens
placed on the research board during that trick.

3. Scoring phase
Record the scores earned by each player on an experiment result sheet.
There are 2 kinds of scores, which are scores from tricks and bonus scores from
victory prediction.
Scores from tricks
Each player gains I point for each trick won. Count the number of piles in front of
you to see how many tricks you have won.
If any player caused a paradox during this round, the player who caused the paradox
instead scores -l point per trick that they have won.
Bonus score from victory prediction
If the number of trick(s) won is as predicted, that player receives a bonus score.
If any player caused a paradox during this round, the player who caused the paradox
will not receive any bonus score.
From the research board, find the largest group of your player tokens which are»
adjacent to each other, scoring 1 point for each token in that group.
"Adjacent" refers to a state in which your player tokens are connected vertically
or horizontally. Diagonal connection is not considered to be adjacent.

1-2. Preparation phase for the next round
After completing the scoring phase, the next round begins. During the preparation
phase after the second round, the following procedure will be added.
• Each player collects their player tokens from the research board and their
player board.
• Place one player token on each X on your player board.
• Pass the Round Start Player card to the player to the left of the current
Round Start Player.

4.End of game
The game ends after all players have been the Round Start Player. The winner
is the player who scored the most points after adding the scores from each round (refer
to the experiment result sheet). If there is a tie, the player with the highest score during
the final round wins. If those players are also tied, the tied players share the victory.